Some of you are perking up,
it's like reducers?
This sounds like Redux, right?
And that's because it actually is very,
very similar to Redux.
And there are gonna be people out there
that tell you, I never use useState,
I only ever use useReducer.
So it's basically a thin layer on top of
useState that allows you to treat your
state like a Redux store kind of locally.
So let's just have quick example of that.
I have this useReducer h1, and
if I click plus 1 on the red, it goes red.
Or if I do green, it goes green,
or I can add blue,
and I can turn it white if I add of them,
right?
So it's just allowing you to change the
color values of the various RGB spectrums.
So let's take a look at how we end up
implementing that here using useReducer.
I'm actually a fan,
I think it's pretty great.
And in specific cases, I will pull
on useReducer instead of useState.
But just kinda keep that in mind.
I'm either gonna use useState or
useReducer,
they fundamentally achieve the same
things in relatively different ways.
Okay, so I create a reducer here.
And if you've ever written Redux before,
and if you haven't, we're about to, so
don't worry about it.
But this functionally works
like a reducer in Redux.
It gives you the current state and
an action object.
Okay, and
then you just switch on the action object.
And here I have a couple of different
types of actions, increment red,
decrement red, increment green, decrement
green, increment blue, decrement blue.
And all I'm doing here is I am changing
the state so that the red either goes
up or the red goes down, or the green
goes up or the green goes down, right?
And then all I'm doing is I'm modifying
my state in some capacity, and
then I'm returning it back.
So you can see here, I have useReducer.
I hand it this reducer up here, right?
And a reducer's just a funny way of
saying a function that takes in a state,
it takes an action, and
then it returns back the state at the end.
That's literally everything that
a reducer is right there in a nutshell.
It's a function that has a specific way of
calling in a specific thing that returns.
Okay, so you have a useReducer here,
I hand it the reducer function,
I hand it an initial state.
And then here I get back the current
state and a dispatch function.
And a dispatch function is,
you hand it an action item and
then it calls the reducer with the current
state and that action item, that's it.
So down here, I wonder what this is?
Yeah, inaccessible,
that's why there's a warning here.
And then any time that I click the click,
it dispatches a action item here
of either increment red or decrement red,
depending on which button they pressed.
And the same thing here with
increment green or decrement green,
increment blue or decrement blue.
And it just goes through the reducer,
It modifies the state in some capacity.
In this particular case,
red will go up by 50 or down by 50.
And then yeah, the limitRGB function
is just keeping it between 0 and
255, which are the valid values for RGB.
So the question that would be
valid to ask at this point is,
why would I choose this over useState?
This looks a little bit more complicated,
and I mean, perhaps it is.
I mean, useState, you just say,
here's my default state,
give me back a different piece of state.
I could've totally done
this with const [r,
setR] = useState(50) or
something like that, right?
And then done that for red,
done it for green, done it for blue.
And then instead of dispatching an action
here, I just would've called setR or
setG or setB, right?
Totally valid,
would work exactly the same way.
When people just like this
methodology of using reducers,
because they've used Redux for so
long they wanna keep using that.
That's one reason that people use it.
But the reason that I think that this is,
perhaps in this particular case, useful is
you have a lot of state that's modified
in relatively uniform fashions, right?
So this is either going up or
down by 50, right?
So this actually makes this
pretty easy to understand.
It's like okay,
we can go up or down by 50.
And you can kinda see at a glance here,
this is all of the way that my
state changes in a single glance.
And let me just tell you that the source
of almost every bug is just state
changing in the wrong way, right?
And so in this particular view, I can
see at a glance all of the delta, right,
all of the change that this particular
component can go through and
at a single glance.
And I can kinda comprehend it as a whole.
That's valuable, right?
That makes it very readable.
The other thing that I'll say is,
I can pull this reducer
out now into a unit test.
And I can unit test that if I give
it this state and this action,
that it comes back with
the state that I expect.
Which means that you get to change or
you get to test how your state will
change, and that is very valuable.
So then you can write unit
tests around that and
prevent bugs from state
changing incorrectly.
Which, like I said,
is the source of most bugs.
And if you can test
the source of most bugs,
you can have more confidence
in your application.
That makes sense?
You're kind of decoupling state change
from the display layer, and that's useful.
So again, some people say, I always
do this, and I only do it this way.
And I would say that can be valid, right?
If you're into that,
you can definitely go down that path.
Do I do it?
No, no, definitely not.
Cuz I'm lazy and
I just wanna write useState, right?
I lean into the convenience
probably a little too much.
But for something like this
component that I made here,
I'm pretty happy with
using useReducer here.
And I'm totally fine if you say,
I'm gonna do it sometimes,
I'm not gonna do it sometimes.
I think that's a pragmatic
approach to do it that way.
Should I ever use Redux and
useReducer at the same time?
And I would say I think there's
occasion that you would use both.
Because you're gonna use useReducer
as a local piece of state, right?
So in this particular case,
I probably don't wanna store
this RGB in a global store.
And I think the proper way to use
Redux is, it's for global state only.
I don't keep local view
state in my Redux store.
I use state for that, cuz React
is really good at managing state.
So in that particular case,
I would use useReducer for
the local view state and I would use
Redux for the global state, right?
And now, kind of a superpower they've got
kind of accidentally in this process is,
you can now use reducers both in your
global Redux store and in your useReducer.
I don't know if that would ever be useful
or if you'd ever have occasion to do that.
But now it's possible and
you're using one programming model for
your entire application.
I think that's valid as well.
So yeah, it's definitely possible and
perhaps even a good thing to do.
I haven't done it, so
I'm not gonna tell you that I've done it.
But it sounds like a good idea to me.
Could you use useContext
together with useReducer and
basically kind of recreate Redux?
Seems plausible,
seems like you could definitely do that.
The other thing I'll say about, at that
point, if you're really trying to recreate
Redux using useReducer with context,
just use Redux, right?
Redux has other things on top of it.
It has additional tooling, like
the Redux dev tools, it has middleware.
So if you need to do Redux sagas,
or thunks, or things like that,
stuff that we're gonna talk
about in that section.
But if you're gonna do that together,
just go ahead and
go full in and use Redux.
You also have the Redux hooks, which
are really convenient to use as well.
So right now this is black,
right, this useReducer.
So that means its color here is 0,
0, 0, right?
I'm gonna click Increment red, so
the plus on the red one, so this one here.
So it's gonna call this onClick handler,
which is gonna call a function that's
gonna call dispatch with
this action type in it.
This action type, all it has is a type
on it that says increment r, right?
So I call dispatch with this object, plus.
You probably can't see it,
this got a little bit more red.
Let's click it three times.
All right, so now this is like 200, okay?
So when I click this again,
it's going to dispatch this object.
Which is then going to call this
reducer with the state, right?
So let's pretend it came in with 0, 0,
0, this is the state object right here.
So r 0, just type it out.
R 0, g 0, b 0, that's gonna be the.
What did I do here?
Okay, that's gonna be the state
right there, the r 0, g 0, b 0.
And then the action here is going to
be just an object that
has type INCREMENT_R.
Okay, so that's gonna be the action
that's gonna come in here.
So then it's gonna go to the switch
statement, it's gonna say,
what is the action type here?
It's gonna be type INCREMENT_R, so
it's gonna hit this first case right here,
right?
And then it's gonna return
an Object.assign, empty object.
One big key here is,
make sure you're always returning
a brand new object, right?
So don't return the old object, or
the reducer thinks nothing changed, right?
Cuz it's not doing a deep check,
it's just doing a simple shallow check,
same object, same object?
Cool, I'm not gonna update, same object,
different object, I'm gonna update.
That's the simple algorithm
it goes through to,
if the useReducer is
going to update the view.
So I assigned the old state, right?
So g and b are coming across,
they're gonna stay exactly 0,
we're not overriding that.
And then here,
we're going to add 50 to the red.
So this is gonna come back from r 0,
it'll come back as r 50, right?
And we'll return that,
which is the new value of the store.
It's going to call rerender again here,
which is going to make it more red.
So that's step by step what happens.
And again, if you've ever done Redux,
that should feel very familiar,
that's exactly how Redux works.